[Doc] Add documentation for `fetchJson` (#8712)
marmelab/react-admin: docs/fetchJson.md

---
layout: default
title: "fetchJson"
---

# `fetchJson`

> React-admin includes a `fetchJson` utility function to make HTTP calls. It's a wrapper around the browser's `fetch` function, which adds the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React-admin includes a `fetchJson` utility function to make HTTP calls. It's a wrapper around the browser's `fetch` function, that adds the following features:
```

-   It adds the `Content-Type='application/json'` header to all non GET requests
-   It adds the `Authorization` header with optional parameters
-   It makes it easier to add custom headers to all requests
-   It handles the JSON decoding of the response
-   It handles HTTP errors codes by throwing an `HttpError`

## Usage

You can use it to make HTTP calls directly, to build a custom [`dataProvider`](./DataProviderIntroduction.md), or pass it directly to any `dataProvider` that supports it, such as [`ra-data-simple-rest`](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-data-simple-rest).

```jsx
import { fetchUtils, Admin, Resource } from 'react-admin';

> import simpleRestProvider from 'ra-data-simple-rest';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import simpleRestProvider from 'ra-data-simple-rest';
import { PostList } from './posts';
```

const httpClient = async (url, options = {}) => {
    const { status, headers, body, json } = fetchUtils.fetchJson(url, options);
    console.log('fetchJson result', { status, headers, body, json });
    return { status, headers, body, json };
}
const dataProvider = simpleRestProvider('http://path.to.my.api/', httpClient);

const App = () => (
    <Admin dataProvider={dataProvider}>
        <Resource name="posts" list={PostList} />
    </Admin>
);
```

> **Tip:** `fetchJson` is included in the `fetchUtils` member of the `react-admin` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip:** `fetchJson` is included in the `fetchUtils` object exported by the `react-admin` package.
```

> ### Parameters

Reviewer 2: We don't need 2 levels of heading here. Make it a top-level heading (`###` => `##`)

`fetchJson(url, options)` expects the following parameters:

-   `url` **string** The URL to fetch
-   `options` **Object** The options to pass to the fetch call. Defaults to `{}`.
-   `options.user` **Object** The user object, used for the `Authorization` header
-   `options.user.token` **string** The token to pass as the `Authorization` header
-   `options.user.authenticated` **boolean** Whether the user is authenticated or not (the `Authorization` header will be set only if this is true)
-   `options.headers` **Headers** The headers to pass to the fetch call

### Return Value

`fetchJson` returns an object with the following properties:

-   `status` **number** The HTTP status code
-   `headers` **Headers** The response headers
-   `body` **string** The response body
-   `json` **Object** The response body, parsed as JSON

## Adding Custom Headers

Here is an example of how to add custom headers to all requests:

```jsx
import { fetchUtils, Admin, Resource } from 'react-admin';

> import simpleRestProvider from 'ra-data-simple-rest';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import simpleRestProvider from 'ra-data-simple-rest';
import { PostList } from './posts';
```
